you
this lecture is about the statistical
language model in this lecture weekend
we're going to give an introduction to
statistical named model this has to do
with how do you model text there are
ways problem with models so it's related
to how we model query based on a
document we're going to talk about what
is the language model and then we're
going to talk about the simplest
language model called a unigram damage
model which also happens to be the most
useful model for tax retrieval and
finally we'll discuss possible uses of
an M&E model what is the language model
well it's just a probability
distribution over water sequences so
here I feel 1 this model gives the
sequence today's Wednesday a probability
of 0.001 it gave today Wednesday is a
very very small probability because it's
a mathematical you can see the
probability is given to these sentences
or sequences of words can vary a lot
depending on the model
therefore it's clearly context dependent
in ordinary conversation probably
today's Wednesday is most popular among
these sentences but imagine in the
context of discussing apply the math
maybe the eigenvalues positive would
have a higher probability this means it
can be used to represent the topic of
the text the model can also be regarded
as a probability for mechanism for
generating text and this is why it's
also often called a generating model so
what does that mean we can imagine this
is a mechanism that's visualized as here
as a stochastic system that can generate
the sequences of words so we can ask for
a sequence and it's too simple a
sequence from the device if you want and
they might generate a for example today
is Wednesday but the could have
generated any other sequences
so for example there are many
possibilities right so this in this
sense we can view our data as basically
simple observed from such a generative
model so why is such a model useful well
it's mainly because it can quantify the
uncertainties in natural reality where
do inserting this come from
well if one source is simply the
ambiguity in natural memory that we
discussed earlier in adapter another
source is because we don't have complete
understanding we lack all the knowledge
to understand language in that case they
will be inserting this as well so let me
show some examples of questions that we
can answer with a language model that
would have interesting application in
different ways given that we see John
and feels how likely what we see happy
as opposed to happy as the next word in
a sequence of words now obviously this
will be very useful for speech
recognition because happy and happy
would have similar acoustical sound
positive signals but if we look at the
lambda model we know that John feels
happy would be far more likely than cam
feels happy another example given that
we observe baseball three times and game
once in a news article how likely is
little ball to sports this obvious is
related to text categorization and
information retrieval
also given that a user is interested in
sports news how likely would the user
use baseball in a query now this was
clearly related to the query light hole
that we discussed in the previous
lecture so now let's look at the simple
city limit model called a unigram named
model in such a case we assume that we
generate the text by generating each
word independent so this means the
probability of a sequence of words will
be then the product of the probability
of each word and normally they are not
independent right so if you have seen a
word like a language that would make
them far more likely to observe
model than if you haven't seen family so
this is something is not necessary to
but we make this as something to
simplify the model so now the model has
precisely n parameters where n is the
vocabulary size we have one probability
for each word and all these
probabilities muscle someone so strictly
speaking we actually have n minus 1
parameters as I say that text can then
be assumed to be a sample drawn from
this water distribution so for example
now we can ask the device or the model
to stochastic and generally the word for
us instead of the sequences so instead
of giving a whole sequence my god
today's Wednesday it now gives us just
one word and we can get all kinds of
words and we can assemble these words in
a sequence so that would still allows
you to compute the probability of
today's Wednesday as the product of the
three probabilities as you can see even
though we have not asked the model to
generator the sequences it actually
allows us to compute the probability for
all the sequences but this model now
only needs in premise to characterize
that means if we specify all the
probabilities for all the words then the
models behavior is completely specified
whereas if we don't make this assumption
what would they have to specify
probabilities for all kinds of
combinations of words in sequences so by
making this or something it makes it
much easier to estimate these parameters
so let's see a specific example here
here I show two unigram language models
with some probabilities and these are
high probability words that are shown on
top the first one clearly suggests a
topic of text remaining because the high
probability words are all related to
this topic the second one is more
related to health now we can then ask
the question how Micra will
a particular text from each of these
four models now suppose with simple
words to form a document let's say we
take the first distribution who drive
assemble was what was do you think it
would be generate well maybe text or
maybe mining maybe another war even food
which has a very small problem in a day
might the sphere be able to show up but
in general high probability the world
will likely show up and more often so we
can imagine what general at the texture
that looks like text mining in fact
there was a small probability you might
be able to actually generate the actual
text mining paper that would actually be
meaningful although the probability
would be very very small
in the extreme case you might imagine we
might be able to generate the attached
paper text mine maybe that would be
accepted by a major conference and in
that case the probability would be even
smaller but it's a nonzero probability
if we assume none of the words that have
nonzero probability similarly from the
signal topic we can imagine we mean
generator for the nutrition paper that
doesn't mean we cannot generate this
paper from text mining distribution we
can but the probability would be very
very small
maybe smaller than even generating a
paper that can be accepted by a major
conference on text mine so the point
here is that given distribution we can
talk about the probability of observing
a certain kind of text some text we have
higher power pin it is now others now
let's look at the problem in a different
way suppose we now have available a
particular document in this case maybe
the abstract of the text mining paper
and we see these world accounts here the
total number of words is 100 now the
question we ask here is the estimation
which we can ask the question which
model which water distribution has been
used or to generate in this text book
assuming that the text has been
generated by sampling world from the
distribution so what would be your guess
well I have to decide what comp in this
text mining etc would have so pause the
video for a second and try to think
about your best guess if you like a lot
of people you would have guessed that
well my got best guess is the text has a
probability of 10 out of 100 because
I've seen text 10 times and there are in
total 100 words
so we simply not seem to normalize these
counts and that's in fact the word
justified and your intuition is
consistent with mathematical derivation
and this is called a maximum like
investment in this estimator we assume
that the parameter settings are those
that would give our observe the data the
maximum probability that means if we
change these probabilities then the
probability of observing the particular
test data would be somewhat smaller so
you can see this has a very simple
formula basically we just need to look
at the count of a word in the document
and then divided by the total number of
words in the document or talking the
length normalized frequency our
consequence of this is of course we're
going to assign zero probabilities to
and seen words if we haven't observed
the world there will be no incentive to
assign a nonzero probability using this
approach why because that would take
away probability mass for this observe
the words and that obviously wouldn't
maximize the probability of this
particular observer attached data but
one can still question whether this is
our best estimate well the answer
depends on what kind of model you want
to find right this estimator gives us
the best model based on this particular
data but if you're interested in a model
that can explain the content of the for
paper of for this abstract then you
might have a second thought right so for
one thing there should be other words in
the
born of the article so they should not
have zero probabilities even though they
are not observed in the abstract so
we're going to cover this a little more
later in discussing the query likelihood
model so let's take a look at some
possible uses of these lambda models one
use is simply to use it to represent the
topics so here I show some general
English background text we can use this
text to estimate a language model and
the model might look like this right so
on the top we have those all common
words and the is we etc and then we'll
see some common words like these and
then some very very rare words in the
bottom this is the background image
model it represents the frequency of
words in English in general right this
is the background model now let's look
at another text maybe this time we'll
look at the computer science research
papers so we have a collection of
computer science research papers we do
as meshing again we can just use the
maximum accuracy better where we simply
normalize the frequencies now in this
case we'll get the distribution that
looks like this on the top it looks
similar because these words occur
everywhere they are very common but as
we go down we will see words that are
more related to computer science
computer software attacks etc and so
although here we might also see these
words for example computer but we can
imagine the probability here is much
smaller than the problem in there here
and we will see many other words here
that that would be more common in
general in English so you can see this
distribution characterizes the topic of
the corresponding tense we can look at
the even a smaller text so in this case
let's look at the text remaining paper
now if we do the same we have another
distribution again the can be expected
to occur on the top but soon we will see
text mining Association classroom these
words
have relatively high probabilities in
contrast in this distribution you know
text has relatively small public unity
so this means again based on different
the text data we can have a differ in
the model and model captures the topic
so we call this talking in the language
model and we call this collection
language model and later you will see
how they are used in the retrieval
function but now let's look at that
another use of this model
can we statistically find out what words
are semantically related to computer now
how do we find such words well our first
thought is that let's take a look at the
text of that match computer so we can
take a look at all the documents that
contain the word computer let's build a
language model we can see what would we
see there well not surprisingly we see
these common words on top as we always
do so in this case this name which model
gives us a conditional probability of
seeing a word in the context of computer
and these common words will naturally
have hybrid opinion days but we also see
computer itself and software we have
relatively high probabilities but if we
just use this model we cannot just say
all these words are semantically related
to computer so intuitively we would like
to get rid of these know these common
words how can we do that it turns out
that it's possible to use names in order
to do that I suggest you to think about
that so how can we know what words are
very common so that we want to kind of
get rid of them
what model would tell us that well maybe
you can think about that so the
background image model precisely tells
us this information it tells us what was
a common general so if we use this
background model we would know that
these words are common words
general so it's not surprising to
observe them in the context of computer
whereas a computer has a very small
probability in general so it's very
surprising that we have seen computer
then with this probability and the same
is true for software so then we can use
these two models to somehow figure out
the words that are related to computer
for example we can simply take the ratio
of these two probabilities or normalize
the topically I'm going to model by the
probability of the word in the
background damage model so if we do that
we take the ratio we'll see that then on
the top computer is ranked and then
followed by software program all these
words are related to computer because
they are very frequently in the context
of computer but not frequently in whole
collection whereas these common words
will not have a high probability in fact
they have a ratio up out of one and down
there because they are not really
related to computer by taking the sample
of texture that contains the computer we
don't really see more occurrences of
them then in general so this shows that
even with these simple named models we
can do some limited analysis of
semantics so in this lecture we talk
about language model which is basically
probability distribution over text we
talked about the simplest to lambda
model called unigram named model which
is also just a word distribution we
talked about the two uses of a language
model one is will represent the topic in
a document in a collection or in general
the other is rediscovered word
associations in the next lecture we're
going to talk about how damage model can
be used to design a retrieval function
here are two additional readings the
first is textbook and statistical actor
and reprocessing the second is the
article that has a survey of statistical
models with a lot of pointers to
research work
[Music]